A Simple Joint-Stock Company (SJC) is a new form of capital company introduced with the aim of facilitating startups and technology-related companies.
The SJC is expected to be characterized by a simple and fast way of establishment, the ability to attract investors without losing control over the company, as well as modern solutions and flexibility in creating its internal structures.
Shares in the company are issued in exchange for cash and non-cash contributions.
Non-cash contributions may include any contribution with a financial value, such as the provision of services or work.
Shares have no nominal value, do not constitute a part of the share capital, and are indivisible. Therefore, the first advantage is the possibility of subscribing for shares with non-cash contributions, such as knowledge, work, know-how, patents, and other assets, provided that these contributions have a measurable monetary value.
Another advantage is the establishment of a minimum share capital of 1 PLN.
Moreover, the amount of share capital is not specified in the company agreement, and changing its amount does not require a change to the agreement.
The SJC may issue shares with special rights, which should be specified in the company agreement. Privileges may relate, for example, to the right to vote, the right to a dividend or to a share in the assets in case of the company's liquidation.
Shareholders of the SJC may, under the conditions specified in the law, vote at the general meeting using electronic communication. In addition, the general meeting can be convened via electronic mail, and participation in the general meeting can be conducted through electronic means of communication.
A characteristic feature of the SJC is its flexibility.
Many provisions regarding its structure and functionality allow for tailoring solutions to its needs.
The provisions introducing the SJC and are intended to respond to the needs of entities in the field of new technologies.
The new form of the company is also a response to changes in the way of thinking about companies by moving away from focusing on assets and instead focusing on the human factor such as creativity (patents), work, concepts, and innovation.
